we're living through an interesting  period of history in which  nobody really studies  how to deal with  conflict nobody really studies how to  win  in political conflicts what people study  what people are taught to respect  is avoidance of conflict is  de-escalation  of conflict you've probably heard these  terms you know uh all your life  i met a man who had been for many years  a buddhist monk  he was a white european  and he had gone to thailand and he was a  formal  taravata buddhist monk in the full  saffron colored robe you know  he became fluent in the thai language he  preached to thai people he really did  live in immersion he wasn't just hanging  out with a bunch of white hippies and  dreadlocks or something he lived that  life what do you think he did with the  rest of his career  after he uh after he gave up being a  buddhism oh he taught he taught conflict  avoidance he taught uh yeah conflict  resolution i think that's the that's the  term um  all right so we talk a lot about  conflict resolution and we have a sort  of political education we're growing up  that has to do with minimizing avoiding  and de-escalating conflict and certainly  currently in the year 2022 that is what  we hear about on the news  all the time the police we find fault  with them for escalating a conflict  instead of de-escalating it so on and so  forth  but when we turn to the questions that  matter to us most both on massive scale  of a society of millions of people  planet of billions of people and on the  most intimate scale the one-to-one scale  of friends lovers colleagues and  family members very often what we're  actually talking about is  escalating a conflict taking what might  be a relatively minor or relatively  subtle conflict between two people and  raising the stakes raising the  consequences so that  and until  something really fundamentally changes  now we can give you about a hundred  different examples here but i think you  can imagine let's just say you have a  brother  and your brother drinks alcohol  smokes cigarettes and gambles  and he doesn't do any of these things to  such an excess that it would be  perceived as a mental illness in our  society he does you know he's not  diagnosable as an alcoholic  but this adds up to a lot of his time  and energy what are you going to do if  you really want to convince him to make  a change if you don't want to normalize  his behavior you want to abnormalize his  behavior you want him to see  the consequences of his actions you even  want to exaggerate the consequences of  his actions you want to in a sense  create  consequences for his actions that they  currently don't have i mean currently he  may be able to say he can still hold  down his job  and his girlfriend puts up with him and  he has a wonderful social life and his  drinking and smoking and gambling that  it's really not a problem but it's a  problem for you  and in a sense you want to convince him  that it should be a problem for him too  let's say  you're born and raised muslim  your father is muslim your mother is  muslim but you're not  you're an open atheist in a muslim  household household and assume you're in  your 20s it's not you've moved out of  the house  you've got brothers and sisters and in  the same way that someone can be a  little bit of an alcoholic and a little  bit of a smoker and a little bit of a  gambler and just get by in your life  let's say this is a very realistic  scenario for many of you let's say your  brothers and sisters they're not  atheists  and they're not devout muslims either  they're just a little bit muslim they  just they just get  you know they get along with their  parents they get along with the church  they get along with  worldly authorities oh that's a real  easy situation to avoid conflict and  both of them are right we can be  conflict avoiding conflict resolution we  have conflict minimization we can we can  describe we can all we can all just get  along  and years and years are going to go by  and nothing is really going to change  right so what about the conflicts in  which exactly what we want is to insist  that people be  uncompromising that they face up to the  consequences and implications of their  beliefs of their decisions of their of  their commitments that actually what we  want to do is abnormalize their behavior  to lead them into a situation where they  are distantiated enough from alienated  enough from  the trappings of their daily life things  that they've they've learned to ignore  things that have become invisible  invisible to them through repetition and  familiarity things that you see and do  every day which can include prayer i  mean things you see and do every day can  include drinking alcohol and it can  include praying to a god that doesn't  exist  and you want to  stop this cycle of self-justifying you  know compromised uh behavior and say no  no let's let's really think about this  okay  what if you have a family  where your father  takes antidepressants  your mother takes  anti-anxiety drugs  and  let's say she was diagnosed at some  point with  attention deficit disorder maybe she  also has to take sleeping pills to help  her because she's on the meds for those  other things screw up her sleep  and you got a number of brothers and  sisters and cousins  and seemingly everyone is on  mind-altering  prescription medication  24 hours a day seven days a week and for  them it's normal  i like like the gambler i talked about  as the first example right um  probably they're all accustomed to  complaining about the side effects you  know probably they complain amongst  themselves oh you know i've been taking  such and such on my doctor's  organization oh and they tried  increasing the prescription and then we  tried decreasing it and then i tried  switching to this other drug you know  they probably do admit  that there are problems admit that there  are drawbacks probably they admit things  like erectile dysfunction as a side  effect loss of sense of smell and i've  known people who take these drugs they  have all kinds of weird side effects  just loss of sleep and and all kinds of  things that different effects probably  but for them right it's become  normal it's something they accept son  they've made peace with and if you want  to  challenge them  if you want to really challenge them  about the question of what do they  believe  and what are the implications  of those beliefs  if you think them all the way through  do you believe  it's good  to take a medicine  that has been debunked that has been  scientifically proven to not work to not  be effective for the disease you claim  you have it's a whole separate question  here whether or not that disease even  exists scientifically but you know  do you think  it's moral and good for you not even  your doctor not even the bogeyman of the  big pharmaceutical corporation do you  think it's good for you  to encourage people to take a drug  that is non-effective  and that has side effects that include  brain damage  medically proven we can show it through  an x-ray we can show it through an mri  scan we can show it through examining  cadavers we can prove  permanent brain damage is that really  what you believe are those the tenets of  your religion is that really what you're  really loving all these people are  comfortable okay you can't solve the  problem through conflict avoidance or  conflict resolution we're talking about  conflict creation  we're talking about you know jarring  people  out of their complacency and again  abnormalizing what for them is  completely normal behavior right it's  part of the drum beat of daily life  in the same way that you know if you sit  down and read a book on a subway maybe  when you first sit down the noise of the  subway disturbs you have a long subway  ride you start reading the book  and  you know the noise of the grinding gears  and so on the subway around you starts  to disappear  into the background  right now  again i want to emphasize this  this kind of conflict exists at the most  intimate level your husband your wife  your boyfriend your girlfriend  your parents your brothers and sisters  right  your co-workers at the office and you  can scale it up  and it exists at the level of the city  of the state of the province of the  country of the continent  of the world and we're talking about  conflict creation we're talking about  taking a situation where everybody  everybody tolerates each other  the alcoholics  tolerate the sober people and the sober  people tolerate the alcoholics the  people who are morally opposed to  gambling they get along just fine with  the people who go and gamble every  weekend right and the atheists get along  just fine with the muslim  fundamentalists we're all one big happy  family  and you know 20  of the population united states of  america can be on a prescription with  mind altering ineffective medication  that causes permanent brain damage  anti-depressants antipsychotics it can  go up to thirty percent go to fitness we  can all keep tolerating each other we  all keep on avoiding conflict with one  another  say yes yes good for good for you you  know like good patting each other on the  on the head patting each other on the  back  everyone uh  everyone enjoying each other's company  from the cradle to the grave with no uh  no conflict at all  what about  what about creating conflict  and once you create those conflicts  creating stakes  creating consequences where there's  something to win  and something to lose you know  for both of us  now i haven't mentioned veganism in this  video and i don't have to i mean we can  do the whole video we can just talk  about atheism we just talk about  left-wing politics right-wing politics  we talk about conservative and liberal  politics there's so many examples i can  work with here but for those of you  mindings who are vegan  i think you will right away know  what i'm talking about whether it's on  the ethical side on the ecological side  or even on the health side of the  equation which i talked about the least  was that you live in a family where it's  normal for people to have heart attacks  at 55.  someone has their first heart attack at  65. oh well you know that's not too bad  because my brother he had his first at  55 and like you can leave it where  everybody's having heart attacks between  55 and 65 and everyone's dead at 75. you  can you can have family where it's  normal to not be able to walk up five  flights of stairs  it's just normal like you know whether  it's cardiovascular or be that's just  considered extraordinary to be able to  run up five flights of stairs and for it  to be no big deal to carry you know  i remember moving furniture in and out  of an apartment going up and down  there's a lot of flights of stairs  there's 13 flights of stairs  with every every piece of baggage and  whatever you know that that's  extraordinary okay well you know so  my point is the health side of it is the  shallowest and the stupidest i'm much  more interested in the ethics the  politics the ecology and so on but even  on that level right i'm not trying to  avoid conflict with you i'm not trying  to get along with you right  this is about conflict escalation right  because maybe maybe there is a little  bit right there's a little bit of doubt  gnawing away at you like you let's say  whether it's your brother or your father  let's say you know a guy who's 55 i  probably do have brothers who are 55 now  i do so i'm in my 40s i have brothers  who are 15 years older me so i do so i  can turn to one of my brothers and say  hey you know what when you take your  shirt off and look in the mirror  you know here's what you see and here's  what you don't see and why don't you  think about what you're going to be like  now 55 to 65 and what the you know you  can you can really try  so my point is there may be a little bit  of a conflict there's a little bit of  awareness life doesn't have to be this  way it doesn't have to be so hard to get  up a flight of stairs it doesn't have to  be  uh it doesn't have to be so embarrassing  to go swimming at the beach or the pool  when you take your shirt off like as a  guy you know i may have felt i feel  something gnawing away at you ethically  there might be some little awareness  snowing away at you it doesn't really  seem necessary for animals to be raised  in captivity just to produce a hot dog  and for them to be slaughtered and  suffer and pollute the air and put the  water out of all these terrible  consequences a hot dog that really  qualitatively is not that different from  the experience of eating a vegan hot dog  and you know in terms of health it's  even worse there's maybe something  gnawing away at them there is some small  degree of conflict there  that can be  escalated  right  and look when you're dealing with  left-wing politics right-wing politics  you know religion  you know  we talk a lot about the kind of  acceptance and reinforcement religious  people get inside the temple it's the  hindu temple muslim temple jewish them  okay yeah but they're also  a kind of pariah  in the rest of society  you know  talk to any girl who grew up in canada  wearing the head scarf the whole time  she went through  primary school in high school and  justifying to herself  why it is she stands out why it is she  is 24 7 well whatever 12 hours a day  when she's outside of the house why is  it that in every class she ever took  first and foremost everyone's first  impression of her was her religion  because she was wearing a religious  uniform and every job she applies for  every interaction whether at the grocery  store or anywhere else like you know  okay there is there is some conflict  there  we have a whole society and culture of  saying hey minimize dies clay devoid let  her know that she's welcome let her know  that you see her for the person she is  despite the fact that she's wearing  a religious  symbol around covering part of her face  covering her hair you know and so on  right but there is some  conflict within her there's some part of  her that's thinking the same way my  brother might be thinking you should be  able to run up five flights of stairs or  something you know um there's some  part of her  that's thinking life doesn't have to be  this way  and whether it's people who have been  her friends who are non-muslim just  secular people people who are maybe this  much christian or people who are  outright atheist or it's people she sees  on tv  people she sees on the news  some part of her is thinking i could  have a life like that woman  i could be like her  i don't have to live this way encumbered  by the religion forever and i didn't  have to suffer through this  in primary school in high school it's  all for god and it's all for nothing  it's for no reason so there is  there is a conflict there right do any  of you feel confident  taking someone aside and as i say  escalating that conflict and saying yeah  you know what the stakes are way higher  than you think they are making excuses  for this religion  there are consequences for the next  century on this planet that go way  beyond you and i on the level of  of two people just talking to each other  the consequences for who you want to be  for the rest of your life maybe you've  got 40 years on this planet maybe maybe  you've got 100 years by now you're gonna  live  whether you've got another 10 years  another 100 years whatever it's going to  be yeah there are consequences on that  scale but there are also you know much  more serious much more far-reaching  consequences that's uh you know let's  let's let's talk about let's escalate  this conflict let's make you feel  responsible let's make you feel  ashamed of yourself let's make you feel  like if you don't make a change if you  don't start innovating if you don't  start coming up with  some new options right you're going to  hate yourself for the rest your life for  squandering this opportunity and and  doing the wrong thing creating a sense  of urgency creating an awareness that  you're standing at a fork in the road  where you get to decide what kind of  person you want to be what kind of world  you want to live in and then what kind  of commitment you're willing to make  what kind of effort you want to make  what kind of ambition you have to make  that happen to change the world beyond  you know the immediate sphere of people  who already know you and love you and  and care about you  now tyson you know what i'm talking  about here right away it does have a  resemblance to one  sales tactics  two  religious conversion  right  if i am trying to convince you to  buy a car  let's say uh specifically buying what  americans call an rv a mobile home a  camper van you know so this is a car you  don't need you already have a car  but now i want to convince you to buy  another car a kind of car  that you're just going to use on your  vacations special vacation vehicle  think about how similar that is to what  i've just been talking about in terms of  political conflict and religious  oh you think you're happy  with the car you've already got you  think you're happy with the vacations  you take with your family but now i'm  gonna sell you on this idea i'm gonna  take this seed of doubt you've got that  you could be happier if you had the  ability to go camping and pitch a tent  what you really need is a vehicle that's  big enough that you can put  surfboards in the back of it and you can  drive to the beach with your girlfriend  or your kids or whatever you've got with  the surfboards and you have a place to  change into your bathing suits like you  have you know even if you don't sleep  there you have a little enclosed space  you have a place where you can have  lunch you know and then you can go to  the beach  you've got to buy a camper i'm going to  escalate and escalate until you are  ready to make this commitment to change  your life so you're ready to go into  debt you're ready to take out a bank  loan whatever it takes you're ready to  put it on the credit card to make this  this change in your life it resembles  sales tax and i got to tell you  something i used to be a member of the  teravata buddhist faith  i was good at it guys  all right one of the reasons i have so  much contempt for my contemporaries my  competitors who may be cult leaders and  they may be  religious leaders is that i know i would  be better at running the same game that  they're running you know oh you think  paul bashir can talk of a good game you  think james aspy can talk a good game  homie come on i can  i can talk the dalai lama into  converting to judaism okay bro like i  can i can sell  buddhist reincarnation i can sell  buddhist ethics i can talk people into  uh the philosophy and the religion of of  theravada buddhism i'm i'm good at i can  work a crowd i mean like when i say word  crowd so when you're talking to 30  people at once and i can talk to people  one one at a time i have experience you  know doing that kind of thing  um  you know i have experience  and you know when you're talking to  someone and you recognize what it is  they  care about and you know where you you  you preach to that and so you take  advantage of what their their interests  and commitments already are and you make  them aware of  interests and commitments that they  didn't even they didn't even know they  had  you know if i actually were to do what  durianrider did jesus  a friend of mine is is convinced that  dorian ryder is autistic actually i have  a friend who is herself diagnosed as  autistic she has a lot of experience  with autism i remember she was talking  through her analysis of him and why she  believes he also is a diagnosable  autistic person i don't i don't find it  completely convincing i don't i'm  looking at me  but he's certainly someone who struggles  with  exactly the kind of eye contact and  conversational ability and the  confidence work taking someone into your  confidence and then moving them and so  on that i have to say already as a  teenager i knew i was good at  and i knew well enough to be afraid of  it i didn't want to be a salesman and i  didn't want to be a cult leader and i'd  like to think i'm still not  you know  um  if you have people in your life  who are communists  if you have people in your life who call  themselves  anarchists or socialists but really  they're on that slippery slope they're  involved with other communist  revolutionary people  you know  the problem isn't  that they're radical  the problem isn't that they're  uncomfortable  the problem is that they're comfortable  like when you talk to those people  they know about the mass murder they  know about the mass starvation they know  about the failures government they know  about that that stuff right  and the question is how are you going to  escalate this  conflict how are you going to find the  basis for doubt and expand on it how are  you going to make them feel ashamed of  themselves because they do they support  they endorse  mass murder and masturbation they  support communism their anti-democracy  and  to be blunt anti-freedom  whatever you want to put it that they  that they support this how are you going  to abnormalize that when for them  it has become  normal it's part of the drumbeat of  their life now again it's my point here  is  it's easy if you're unfamiliar with  these things to think  the radicalism is the problem and all  you have to do is de-radicalize them  it's kind of natural  what i'm saying to you is instead  you have to look at this  and see exactly the compromise and the  tolerance and the normalcy you have to  see the mediocrity of it as the problem  the problem is the extent to which  they're  they're comfortable with this today  um  okay i've and i've dealt with a lot of  communists  in my own family  on the internet face to face i've lived  in  communist countries communism it has  been a real problem it has a real  problem  you know moving ahead it still is in  case you don't know right now joe biden  is more or less in a cold war situation  with communist china it does not look  like in the next 50 years  uh communism is is going away  um it looks like this thing we're going  to deal with  more and more  so  in turning to  uh margaret phelps roper look at her  name on  megan thank you  melissa's just off camera  doing the fact checking  megan phelps roper this is a an author  and a sort of ex-christian activist  whose existence i was reminded of  because one of my supporters on patreon  mentioned  reading her book  she has a ted talk she has the lecture  here on youtube with over six million  views  and she gives just four  um  points of advice points of guidance for  the audience and how to deal with how to  approach  people of  contrary ideological persuasions  and i think she's wrong  about every single one of them i think  it's really really bad  advice i know it's well intended  [Laughter]  um i know she's she thinks she's helping  you  and she thinks she's helping you on the  basis of what her own experience was how  it was she started to doubt the  christian doctor and how it was she was  converted or deconverted from  christianity to some kind of atheism  now the first point is perhaps the most  interesting  her point number one is  don't assume bad intent  i can go through all these examples and  more  if your brother is getting drunk  and  gambling  what do you mean  don't assume bad intent when you  confront him when you're trying to  create a conflict with him when you're  trying as they say really still like a  salesman you're trying to increase the  consequences you're trying to escalate  the conflict so that he'll make a  decision  to change his life  what do you mean  by don't assume  bad intent now i know i think this  really fundamentally reflects the extent  to which she remains christian she  thinks it is a good and pious thing  to go out in the world  and attribute positive intentions to  everyone attribute the the best of  intentions there's a there's a christian  phrase it's a terrible way to operate  frankly even in the absence of this kind  of conflict i mean you know you go into  the guidance counselor's office at the  university  and they have a sign on the wall saying  we're here to help  assume bad intent you go to a  psychiatrist's office  he has a sign on the wall saying tell me  all your problems open up your heart to  me bear your soul we're here to help  he may even tell you he has the cure he  has a pill in a bottle it's going to  cure what's wrong with you  assume  bad  intent even the people who are paid a  generous  salary to help you  assume bad intent when i have gone to  unemployment offices here in canada i  think they refer to them as employment  offices at the power of positive  thinking not unemployment employment but  you know government offices to  supposedly assist you  in finding a job  somebody that's their that's their only  job they're just paid to help people who  come in saying hey look  i'm trying to transition to a new career  i'm trying to find work  assume  bad intent you are dealing with bad  people who have bad motivations in all  these situations and that is in the  absence of a religious conflict in the  absence of a political conflict in the  absence of an ideological conflict such  as we're talking about here that's not  even as fraught a situation  as  you know trying to convert someone to  the vegan diet that's just hey i'm  trying to get help  your job description says you're here to  help me you're paid for governor know me  but they're not there to help you  and sadly they are bad people with bad  intentions some of you guys are watching  this video and you're 55 years old and  you know exactly what i'm talking about  and some of you guys are watching this  video and you're 18 years old you have  no idea what i'm talking about  yet  um  you know sadly i mean right now real  world 2022  when you go into a police station  the police might have a sign on the wall  saying we're here to help you  no they're not  you have to deal with the police  on an adversarial basis you have to  assume  bad intent you have to go in with all  the evidence for your case you say hey  police officer i'm gonna compel you to  do the right thing  and here's how i'm gonna do it and i've  had that experience even when i went in  just to report that i got hit by a car i  was a pedestrian hit by a car and  you would think they were interrogating  the taliban the level of hostility and  threat which i was very good at at  dealing with i cope with that very well  other people would have broke down  weapon it was it was that bad and i  could say the same here so i'm pointing  out the window because that's where it  happened when i confronted the police  here about uh drug addicts openly uh  injecting themselves i i don't know it  was heroin or phenomenal but injecting  those with needles  uh in public broad daylight and the  police refusing to enforce the law in  those circumstances  assume  bad intent so look  um  her claim is so this is megan phelps  roper  again i think she just hasn't recognized  the extent that she remains  fundamentally a christian person with a  christian a christian charitable  perspective on the world quote  assuming ill motives  cuts us off from understanding why  someone does and believes as they do  quotation number two  when we assume good or neutral intent we  have a better framework for dialogue  now what i'm saying to you is not the  opposite  of what she says  when you're dealing with someone in this  kind of ideological conflict so you meet  someone  who's a communist quite recently i spoke  to a guy  and he had an instagram account and  believe his most recent picture of  himself on instagram was him proudly  posing  in front of a communist hammer and  sickle flag it was him identifying as  a communist and he was writing to me and  saying he's a fan of my youtube channel  and he he appreciates what i say in  criticizing communism but he  nevertheless remains a diehard  devoted communist  now  what would it mean if you were going to  talk to someone and you know my only  real interest in this conversation in  one hand okay yeah i appreciate you  watching my channel i appreciate  that you're willing to listen to someone  who's a total anti-communist preacher  but  you know obviously my agenda is to try  to make you uncomfortable with the  compromises you're comfortable with is  to make you realize that what you're  doing here it's just as bad and evil and  wrong as a young man who commits to the  neo-nazi movement and poses in front of  a swastika flag you know it's it is just  as bad it's just as serious and what it  tells me about you  is just as dark like on the judgment of  the individual person whether or not the  knock-on consequences are as bad as is  really another  another question what do you think  you think i'm going to assume good  intentions they're going to impute good  intentions to him  i neither  assign good intentions to him  nor do i assign  bad intentions to him  i assume  that he doesn't even know  what his intentions are himself  his intentions  good or bad  i don't just work with the assumption  that they're unknowable to me  i work with the assumption that they are  unknowable to him  i've talked to people  who used to be vegan  they used to be vegan activists  and then they became ex-vegan  and they became  anti-vegan no one of these guys i could  name him but i won't  i notice  at that time  he got a girlfriend with really big  breasts  and he started posing  on his instagram with her in a wet  bikini showing off her breasts  her face wasn't very pretty i'm just  being honest with you she was one of  those women she had a really impressive  pair of breasts but not a very pretty  face and he was letting you know about  it on on instagram  you know  there were a couple other  changes in his life he was a guy who'd  saved up a lot of money  and then he'd taken a few years off work  and he then returned  to the workplace there are a few  different changes in his life at this  time when he didn't just quit veganism  he actually became an anti-vegan  activist endorsing like  butter  claiming cow butter is healthy things  that most meat eaters don't believe most  mediators think it's okay to indulge in  butter but they recognize it's unhealthy  you know because endorsing you know  butter and and beef and things it was  totally ridiculous  now look  still today like now in retrospect  i can't draw you a diagram we can't set  out billiard balls on a table  and talk about cause and effect  like okay like you went back to the  workplace started having work colleagues  you you got this girlfriend with big  breasts like i can't give you a  cause-and-effect relationship like oh  you got laid  and all of a sudden you don't care about  ethics anymore  all right now and by the way i'm not  even claiming it isn't that simple for a  lot of people it is  for a lot of people it's that simple  what they wanted was to get laid there  were people who became vegan to get laid  they became vegan because of a  particular boyfriend or girlfriend but  they became vegan they started being an  activist started going to events  to get no doubt it can be that simple  okay  but my point is  i don't  know and my conviction is  he doesn't know  either  i think he's not aware of how his sex  life changed the way he views ethics  ecology and ultimately even  health and diet  now real quickly i think you guys know  uh there's a youtuber just using the  name tooker he used to be a fan of my  channel i used to be vegan he knew a lot  and talked about veganism and he knew a  lot about my specific  cynical perspective on veganism he made  a video giving all his reasons why now  he's ex-vegan now he eats meat and  drinks milk and does whatever he  acquiesces in the culture of time and  his reasons when i'm listening to them  this is subjective when i'm hearing them  i'm hearing  [ __ ] [ __ ] [ __ ]  then he admits he can't get laid  right that's the one that stands out to  me as something palpable and real i i  think i'm reading this guy and his  expression i think he's down bad he  talks about  his desire  to get married and have children to find  one i just mentioned he did he didn't  mention his desire to sleep with 10  different women or 100 everyone he's  talking about finding one woman and  getting married and having kids  not all guys are like that some guys  would rather sleep with 200 women  but that that was his that's how he  put it  i can't set out the billiard balls on  the table  and give you  cause and effect right  and i am not claiming that i know his  motives and i am not even claiming to  judge his motives  as good or bad  my point is when i approach these  situations  i assume and i treat people  as if they do not know  their bad intentions themselves  when you're talking about someone  who's born  muslim  who's a raised muslim  do you think they know their reasons  for continuing to be muslim  for continuing to make excuses for their  religion to justify  their commitments to religion  is that really something they can know  themselves  almost by definition  they'll only be able to know that and  reflect on that and analyze it after  they've lost their faith it's after  you've quit  all right  now communism  my parents were communists i was in  effect born and raised communist i  rejected communism okay i can sit here  now  and tell you in detail i can tell you  how i felt about communism at age 10 at  age 15 at age 20 oh yeah now  now that i don't believe in it and i can  talk about my motivations and my parents  motivations we can psychoanalyze this  down to smithereens right oh i know now  now that i'm outside of the ideology  that i'm outside of the belief system  right someone who's still  inside it  i wish i could say to you good or bad  they won't know their own intentions but  you know through this they're always bad  they are always bad intentions but they  won't be able to recognize them  not even if you say them yourself you  know sorry whether it's islam whether  it's christianity or or another religion  i'm going to mention an example from  from buddhism  um  you know  how many people can say to you  while they're still inside the faith  that the reason why they still practice  this religion was that every time they  questioned it as a child every time they  stepped out of line their grandfather  took a stick and beat them  while you still believe while you're  still afraid of going to hell after you  die and while you still maybe want your  grandfather to love you and approve of  you like while you're still in that  relationship you may have some really  intense relationship with the  grandfather who beat you their child  that's when you can't see that and  that's why you can't say that it's a bad  reason it's a bad motivation it's a bad  intention  fact that you're afraid of your father  whipping you or that you know there's  this weird like almost bdsm relationship  to authority that shapes the way you  live your life it's there's no way it  can be good it's bad  but but i won't know that about you and  you won't know that about yourself  i was once um  i was once uh at a buddhist retreat so i  could describe the whole situation uh  but anyway this is a buddhist  institution  and uh relatively philosophical there  were a bunch of people there with phds  or some level of expertise and buddhism  but it wasn't academic this was you know  there were also people that were just  whatever white people enthusiastic about  meditation should say so it was a mixed  crowd there were some  uh chinese people there there were some  people from sri lanka there  there were there was good about 50 white  people 50 east asian traditional  buddhists and some of the discussions  were at a high acting level anyway there  was this white guy  and he was a former buddhist monk  he had experience with the zen buddhist  tradition being a zen monk  and he later went on to after this  conversation he became a theravada  buddhist monk in the burmese  tradition so he was a serious lifelong  passionate  lay buddhist you could say you know  went on to become a a serious monk  i doubt he's still alive anyway probably  died wearing the rope he died walking  the ancient narrow path to nirvana so  we're in this context and i know his  level of education with the scripture  the philosophy of ancient texts  and i basically said we have an audience  there are other people that are having  this error i say to them look  buddhism is a religion of non-violence  detachment compassion insight this  particular philosophy this critique of  desire  how can you possibly justify  being a member of a corrupt form of the  religion  in which your normal religious practice  is to beat someone with a stick  this is the zen buddhist practice  in some forms of zen in japan it carries  on it's more than one form of buddhism  in japan  but i knew the particular group he was  with in the united states they were one  of they believed in beating you with  like beating you into enlightenment  stupid  you know  what  this is not what the buddha taught the  buddha did not teach  beating people with stick and the guy  stood there and he gave this completely  erudite like semi-freudian  semi-philosophical semi-buddhist you  know lecture  about his justification of why he thinks  being beaten with a stick by a zen  master is you know  so i  i loved which he spoke uninterrupted for  a long time i stood there  i said  your parents  beat you with a stick didn't they  and your grandparents  and your babysitter  and what you want to believe  more than anything else  is that they did it for a really good  reason  and not just because they were stupid  or afraid didn't know what to do and  didn't know how to take care of you and  didn't know what to teach you that like  you know your parents might have been 18  at the time you know a lot of people  whether they're 18 or 28 that your  parents were just dumb mixed up young  people who didn't know how to raise a  kid and they hadn't taken a course in it  and whatever  they're beating you for stupid  irrational ignorant reasons  you want to believe more than anything  else that these people had some kind of  profound wisdom  and insight that motivated them to beat  you and now you are acting out that same  script again with a zen master  well what you want to believe the  fantasy you want to gratify  is that when they beat you  for a stick it's for your own good it's  for your own enlightenment and it's  because the person who holds the stick  has some kind of profound ineffable  wisdom  that you don't have  and he broke down  on the spot  he fell apart into pixels  i have experience making people break  down crying  teachers  professors authority figures i do  border guards  getting interrogated at the border and  taking apart the people who are who are  trying to interrogate me all right  you know and and this dude he was he was  a preacher he was used to preaching  this same doctrine  and variations of it  i'm just gonna tell you  i don't know that i'm right  it's a very compelling analysis  and i saw this guy  completely freak out and fall apart  i could be wrong okay  i don't know  neither  does he  megan phelps roper says rule number one  don't assume bad intent  i'm saying to you  assume that these people do not know  their own bad intentions  themselves  why did my father become a communist  i think he went to his grave without  ever knowing himself  i think you could read all his written  work a lot of it's on the internet now  don't read it it's garbage it's terrible  but  you could read what he wrote  decade by decade and never find an  answer and you could ask him and never  find an answer and it's because he never  lost his faith  he never stood outside of that ideology  he never stood outside of that belief  system to look back on it and with  real detachment evaluate you know what  his motives really were  and again the hardest thing about  challenging these people is not that  they're radical it's not that they're  extreme it's that they're comfortable  and you've got to make them  uncomfortable you've got to find the  basis  for the conflict and then escalate it  okay  point number two from megan  is  ask questions  i think this woman just doesn't have  experience with these kinds of conflicts  and the little bit of experience she has  is as a conventionally good looking  woman in american culture  and this is to me telling she says quote  it gives them an opportunity to point  out flaws in our position  no it doesn't  so if i'm asking you questions if i'm  asking you oh how do you justify  supporting joseph stalin when he did  this terrible thing  that doesn't give the other person an  opportunity to point out a flaw in my  position okay  i say  the opposite  here we're addressing something actually  i could have i could have talked about  under point number one too but point  number one went on long enough  um  the real problem people get into whether  they're asking questions or making  assertions or offering arguments  the real problem people get into is that  they struggle over the moral high ground  over who is going to be a good per you  know that you want the other person to  regard you as morally good or as  authoritative all right the way to give  the other person the opportunity to  point out a flaw in your own position is  to go ahead and do it yourself  is to criticize your own position is to  expose its weaknesses is to expose your  own agenda is to engage in  self-criticism  um  it's not to ask them questions  and what she says here about asking  questions it's just completely wrong now  again if she were kind of a large  imposing looking man  i think should have a very different  experience of this in american culture  you know if you're asking someone how do  you know what you think you know about  the bible how do you know what you think  you know about the koran how do you know  what you think you know about communism  how do you know what you think you know  about how how healthy it is to eat  butter you know saturated fat or  something you know  just what you're saying here it's  180 degrees wrong  now  when i talk to people whether they're  communists or fascists or left-wing or  right wings and whatever liberals are or  conservatives  when i criticize my own position  i'm revealing its limits and we're  feeling its its disadvantages  but i'm also revealing the kind of  person i am  and like i'm willing to say look  i'm a terrible person  i'm a bad person  i'm not trying  to be better than you i'm telling you  that for the kind of person i am  this is the program of action that i'm  proposed so really just really briefly  over the last 10 years if you talk to  left-wing people  but the war in afghanistan the war in  iraq war in syria  america's involvement in  israel-palestine the never-ending  conflict all right so often  wingers will begin with the assumption  that it's completely preposterous for  anyone to disagree with them it's  unimaginable to them that anyone takes  the other point of view you can't make  progress by asking questions  you can say oh well  how do you know what you think you know  about hamas how do you know what you  think you know about israel  100  counterproductive right but i can attack  my own position  i can criticize my own position and i  can reveal something important about the  kind of person i am  so look  maybe i'm a terrible person maybe i'm  worse than you in some ways i'll tell  you something i care  so much about democracy  democracy is so important to me  that i'm willing to support  american imperialism as you call it  in cuba  for the sake of democracy i'm willing to  support  american imperialism  in the middle east  you know i'm willing to support a  military alliance between the united  states and israel even though israel may  have all kinds of problems it may be a  deeply flawed democracy america also has  deeply flawed democracy but like  the extent to which  israel is democratic and represents  democracy and advances the cause of  democracy  that's  enough for me to see the conflict in  this way and now let's talk about you  because with most left-wing people  they're instead thinking of this in  terms of american democracy is they just  think america sorry they think american  imperialism is bad and evil and wrong  and then they don't care if they're  supporting hamas in palestine they don't  care if they're supporting  bashar al-assad in syria they don't care  if they're supporting muslim  dictatorships or communist dictators  they don't care if they're supporting  north korea or cuba you know they don't  care what horrible regime they're  supporting as long as it's something  that's against  american imperialism  you can't make progress through  questions you can make progress through  criticizing your own position well look  i'm the kind of terrible person  who who sees democracy now how about you  know what do you see that makes your  view of this so different in criticizing  my own  position i'm not just disclosing  i'm not just disclosing my argument or  sign i'm disclosing who i am right  um and that's the hardest thing to get  across and you'll never get there by by  questioning  and by the way compare this to what i  said about point one in a sense i'm  disclosing my bad intentions  like and i've i've said to people i've  said 11 people look i am willing to  accept  a body count in the tens of thousands to  create democracy like to replace a  dictatorship with democracy i think that  justifies tens of thousands of people  dying in war somewhat that that's my  perspective now  like maybe i'm a bad person like maybe  i'm a bad person the way you're not  but i notice your point of view where  you say you're not willing to support  that and yet you are willing to justify  tens of thousands of people dying in  order to sustain a communist  dictatorship or even in some cases a  muslim dictatorship it's totally  paradoxical but the left wing is  insanely pro-muslim in 2022 this is you  know strange bedfellows partly created  by the israel palestine conflict you  know so on and so forth okay  but you can see what i'm doing here in  part what i'm describing in this video  is  nihilism  in praxis okay point three these last  two i'm gonna do very briefly we're  gonna wrap this up  point three she says stay calm  uh she says of her husband he would  always refuse to escalate the conflict  he would change the subject he would  tell a joke he would recommend a book or  gently excuse himself from the  conversation close quote  again i think her perspective on one end  she doesn't have a lot of experience  with this the mandatory perspective is  just as this kind of good-looking female  in these very peculiar uh circumstances  you're talking to someone who's a  communist you're talking to someone  who's a devout muslim  you know and you want to change their  mind you can't stay calm it's totally  counter to breakfast.com even you're  talking to your brother  who is a gambler and drunk  okay  the whole point is to let them know  how much this means to you how much it  hurts you how much it bereaves you you  know like you can say to your brother i  just can't stand the fact that when we  were growing up you were the smart one  you were smarter than me i thought you  were more gifted than me  and now you eat meat you drink alcohol  you gamble you lead this totally  dissolute life and compared to me you  might as well be [ __ ] like i'm  moving ahead as an intellectual i've  made all this progress and growth and i  see you living this this little life  don't stay calm  show how it hurts you  show how it chews you up inside show  show it gives you nightmares so i can't  stand to talk to you anymore i can't  stand to look at you because i see how  you've squandered your potential in life  what could be worse and again this is  just confronting your brother about  drinking and gambling but this exact  same thing you're talking about your  brother has become a communist your  brother has become a neo-nazi your  brother has become a muslim  fundamentalist whatever the theological  commitment is right  saying to your brother  oh uh  let me change the subject let me tell a  joke  let me recommend a book  oh oh yeah have you read karl marx's  desk patel  let me let me change the top  conversation excuse me though from from  the conversation  de-escalating  doesn't work and the worst part of all  is it makes you complicit if you  de-escalate with your uncle and your  uncle's a nazi if you de-escalate with  your grandfather your grandfather is a  member of the kkk your grandfather's a  racist he's a white supremacist you  de-escalate you get along with him use  these tactics  right you are gonna feel dirty and guess  what you are dirty you're making  yourself complicit you're making  yourself part of the mechanism of  excuse-making people the enablers that  surround him in his life and obviously  this can be true too with  drugs alcohol psychiatric medications so  many things oh oh good for you  let me just de-escalate let me recommend  a book let me make a joke let me change  that no so you know again i know it's  the first thing i talk about the video  so don't trippy myself but exactly what  we're talking about the first 20 minutes  of this video or something we're  actually talking about escalation we're  talking about conflict creation not  conflict of resolution not de-escalation  not  uh conflict avoidance all right and  number four this is also interesting  it's so obvious  and yet  you know i disagree with it  point number four is simply quote make  the argument  as opposed to treating quote the value  of our position  as obvious and self-evident  so i just say i think this is  failing to deal with the fact and  feeling to deal with the extent to which  the problem we're trying to address in  these conflicts is exactly that the  people we're confronting whether they're  people we love people complete strangers  to us for them  their the value of their position is  obvious and self-evident right like that  is exactly what we're trying to  abnormalize make them uncomfortable with  we're trying to reach down to the roots  of the doubt  that underlie this great oak tree of  faith you know what is your faith  rooted and it's rooted in scarcely  suppressed self-contradictory doubts and  that's what we have to reach down into  and i don't think you do that by  asserting your own argument i think you  do it by asserting your own doubts  and then finding the way into what their  doubts are i think you actually do it  not by talking about what you believe  but what it is you can't believe what  you couldn't accept and the doubts that  led you up to your current uh point of  perspective and if it's one-on-one  you're going to see them reacting to  that because they're going to be things  they've doubted too you know they're  gonna be some things you have in common  and then you try to get at what it is  okay guys we're coming up at three in  the afternoon  i'm happy to have you all here i noticed  we have only 22 people in the audience  there was no advanced warning for this  uh this unscheduled talk i would  appreciate it if you hit the thumbs up  button it helps more people discover the  the video it helps them discover it and  join the conversation while the  conversation is ongoing it also helps  them discover it after the video is up i  would appreciate it if you shared the  link with somebody you know where it  could make a difference in their lives i  normally say you know only share the  link these videos with people  you know we're willing to hear it  you know it's like there's no point  taking one of my videos and dumping it  into a reddit group where nobody wants  to hear it where there's no there's no  interest there's no comment uh no common  ground but um  you know in this case i've got to say  maybe some of you have a brother who's a  drunk and a gambler you gotta share this  link with maybe you have parents or  grandparents who are taking psychiatric  medications maybe you have friends who  in the past  were  highly motivated  fire brand atheists and they've lost  their passion for the advancement the  atheist movement maybe you have friends  who are in the past  vegan activists and they've lost their  their passion for that  i think you probably do know people you  can share the link with  and i've got to tell you i don't present  this video as a final decision on the  matter i would love to think there are  people who can write into me and  disagree with me or even have an  interview with me on skype and present a  contrasting point of view all right i  didn't get into this movement  you know to stand alone  but the fact is  i am  out here alone every day i'm asking  these questions and i wonder why is  nobody else asking them  just close by reiterating what i said in  the description to my most recent video  uh posted on youtube okay with all of  these things with all of these struggles  yeah you can think about the outcomes  yes but  i'm not asking you to predict the future  what's the future of north korea five  years from now what's the future of  syria five  years  i'm asking you to think seriously about  who you are going to be five years from  now what kind of a man what kind of a  woman because in choosing the struggles  you engage in whether those are purely  academic and research-based struggles  whether those are explicitly political  struggles you know whether it is  veganism atheism any kind of endeavor  whether it's even the struggle of a  creative artist  the struggle to make a new film  you know whether it's a documentary film  or a narrative fiction  struggle to illustrate and publish a  children's story book you want to change  the world in some ways i'm asking you to  examine seriously  how that struggle is going to change who  you are because that is the one outcome  you can control  and i hope  five years from now  you're not dead  you're alive i hope five years from now  you're not ashamed of who you are  of what you've become i hope you're not  looking back at the last five years  and feeling that you also  have squandered  your potential